We chose a dataset from OpenML that collects observations from every player that has played in the English Premier League, including data on their offensive/defensive performances and their position. Since the data was collected from 1992-2023, we could use this dataset to extrapolate for the current season or future seasons. However, we don’t think that this dataset could be used to generalize for other nations’ leagues or even England’s lower division leagues because of the high level of general play in the league. The hope would be that coaches could use some of this research to help their players know what to focus on in training.

We chose to research whether a player’s big chances missed per game affect that player’s losses per game and whether a player’s interceptions per game and big chances per game created are related. Our first hypothesis is that if a player misses more big chances per game, then it will positively affect that player’s losses per game. Our second hypothesis is that a player’s number of interceptions per game is positively correlated with big chances per game.

We chose our first topic of analysis because we thought that a player who misses more chances per game than others would negatively affect their team's performance. However, we also wanted to see if the fact that the player had so many chances in the first place meant that the team they were playing for was naturally going to be better than other teams, meaning that their misses actually had little or no impact on their team's losses.

We chose our second topic of analysis because it seemed likely to us that players who intercept the ball more have more opportunities to create quick counterattacks and get the ball forward.

It is also important to split this research by position group because stats such as big chances and interceptions can vary wildly depending on where you play. Of course, a forward who is more often near the goal will have more big chances missed than a defender, who rarely ever gets the chance to shoot. Thus, our analysis is focused on finding any significant outliers or trends that could help players in each position group make fewer mistakes and play better.
